[Back to main page](/index.md)

### Why Complexity

I studied Pharmarceutical Science and Psychology as an undergrad, then Criminology as a Master student. Through this journey across the scales, I have looked at humans as molecular machines, cognitive pipelines, and constituents of a social organism, which eventually led me to Complexity Science. The desire to understand complexity is almost a coping mechanism of my brain to hold together very different perspectives of human identity. Human behavior is an interface between the micro and the macro: on one side, it is a global property coming out of  the relations between local properties, and on the other side, it is a local property being an element of a global property. What really got me to wonder is the similarity between the two local-global relations, which comes with the analogy between a person and a social system.  

I'm certainly not the first person who felt that way. Plato (or Socrates) made a whole argument about what is justice and injustice based on the value of this very analogy - to know what's justice in a person, one need to look for justice in a city.  
> \[...\] lacking keen eyesight, we were told to read small letters from a distance and then noticed that the same letters existed elsewhere in a larger size and on a larger surface. We'd consider it a godsend, I think, to be allowed to read the larger ones first and then to examine the smaller ones, to see whether they really are the same. \[...\] there is the justice of a single man and also the justice of a whole city \[...] and a city is larger than a single man \[...\]. Perhaps, then, there is more justice in the larger thing, and it will be easier to learn what it is. So, if you're willing, let's first find out what sort of thing justice is in a city and afterwards look for it in the individual, observing the ways in which the smaller is similar to the larger. (Republic, 368-369)

This is almost a research statement. What is justice and injustice of complex adaptive system then? With this being a source of wonder, I simply want a more formal argument that can be backed up by a systematic examination of natural systems. 
